[Music]
six mistakes you keep doing at trainings
are you trying everything you possibly
can to lose weight and get a toned body
but aren't seeing any results are you
dieting and hitting the gym five times a
week but the pounds are still there
without the proper knowledge you might
be following an exercise routine that
keeps you stuck on your journey or worse
it might even set you back keep watching
to learn which things to avoid and which
to incorporate and as always don't
forget to click the subscribe button and
turn on notifications to join us on the
bright side of life
number six you don't warm up warming up
before exercising and stretching
afterward are necessary components of
any weight loss or toning routine
everyone's in a rush these days it's
understandable if you're pumped when you
arrive at the gym and can't wait to get
on that treadmill or begin doing heavy
weight training immediately
unfortunately if you don't warm up you
risk injuring your body if that happens
you'll definitely face a setback your
body needs to be warmed up and your
muscles need to be loose before you can
try to push them beyond their limits if
you do warm up but only stretch before
exercising and not after you might have
prepared your body for the workout but
your muscles will be left in a state of
contraction and tension this means that
instead of feeling relaxed after
exercising you'll feel tense and
restricted
a huge part of weight loss is the mental
aspect if your body doesn't feel good
you won't want to stick to your workout
routine make sure you warm up and
stretch to increase your chances of
exercising in the long term number five
you only do steady cardio does your
exercise routine involve running on the
treadmill or using the elliptical at the
same intensity for the whole time you're
at the gym doing long and steady cardio
might be a necessary approach for
long-distance runners who need stamina
however if your goal is to lose weight
many sources and tons of research show
that instead of focusing on steady
cardio you should do hit workouts hit
stands for high-intensity interval
training hate workouts involved going as
fast as your body will allow you for one
to three minutes and then slowing down
for the same amount of time to a walk if
you are beginner or a jog if you're more
advanced these types of workouts have an
after burn effect which you don't get
with steady cardio the after burn effect
has been tested through numerous studies
including one conducted in 2011 by
Appalachian State University it's been
shown that exercising vigorously through
hit workouts makes the body burn more
calories immediately and for up to 24
hours afterward number 4 strength
training what is that
if your exercise routine only involves
cardio it's time to fall in love with
strength training cardio is great in its
own right besides losing weight he can
improve your memory and thinking ability
and it helps to control blood sugar
reduce anxiety and get you better sleep
but if you only do exercises that focus
on cardio it means that a lot of your
muscles are not getting the attention
they need before you know it you'll
reach a limit in your weight loss
journey because your body will have
adapted to the cardio
that's why adding strength training to
your team is a must
many people are afraid of getting too
buff with strength training which is why
they stay away from it but strength
training will help you gain lean muscle
in your body it will also increase your
metabolism and help you burn fat the
more muscle you have the more energy
your body will expend
and the more calories your body will
burn while you are chilling in your
house sleeping or just going about your
regular day number three you
misunderstand soreness most people have
been sore at one point or another and it
isn't just something that happens to
those who are engaging in a new workout
routine even the most experienced
athletes can get sore from time to time
to a certain extent soreness is a
natural part of exercising the technical
term is delayed onset muscle soreness
and it occurs 24 to 48 hours after you
exercise but how sore is too sore should
you push through your soreness or rest
taking time to rest and allowing your
body to recover from exercise is
necessary for a healthy workout routine
if you wake up and find that you can't
get out of bed then that's too sore it
means you're pushing your body too much
all at once when you actually need to
ease into the exercise you're trying to
accomplish
this type of soreness means you'll need
to take a few days of rest and focus
only on very light exercise such as
walking if you try to push through this
soreness all you'll do is tire the
muscle and set yourself back even
further
number two you use light weights to tone
up what is the best approach doing more
repetitions with lighter weights or
doing fewer repetitions with heavier
weights both approaches have their
benefits but if you're trying to tone up
your body and show some muscle heavier
weights for a shorter time is the way to
go light weights can help you build
endurance and using them is particularly
helpful for endurance sports like
cross-country skiing and rowing you
could do 20 repetitions with light
weights but pushing your body to use
heavier weights even if you only do five
repetitions will help your muscles look
sculpted lifting heavy weights will
increase your muscular strength and tone
up your muscles if your goal is weight
loss heavier weights and short reps are
also the way to go this works in the
same way that hit exercises function
heavier weights will help you maintain
your muscle mass while losing fat if
you're planning to try this soon make
sure you test your body to see how much
weight you can safely and comfortably
lift before engaging in a hard workout
[Music]
number one there's no variety in your
exercise routine
[Music]
if you focus purely on strength training
or cardio you won't be able to reach the
weight loss results you expect this is
not just because your body will adapt to
the exercise but because there will also
be a higher chance that you'll get bored
and quit your routine when you first
started to exercise if you found it
really hard to go a full half hour on
the stationary bike and now it's a
breeze then good job this means you've
gained some stamina but it also means
it's time to change things up and give
yourself a new challenge a good exercise
routine for weight loss and toning up
involves cardio strength training and
flexibility exercises warming up and
stretching so mix it up and you'll see
how this variety can help you stay much
more engage with your exercise routine
remember that besides exercising diet
plays a huge role in your weight loss
journey if you exercise and eat well but
are regularly piling on the calories
with energy drinks or energy bars which
are packed with sugar you could be
reversing the benefits of your exercise
so tell us bright ciders have you caught
yourself making any of these mistakes
let us know in the comment section don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life
[Music]